Artist: Elder
Album: Lore (2015)

Transcription: Sean Eidemiller (seidemiller@gmail.com)

All of the songs from this album were transcribed, by me, from primary sources only -- the original
studio recording and live video footage (with a prefernce given to the former). None were derived
from existing transcriptions.

Generally speaking, there are at least two guitar tracks heard at any given time. Guitar I is
usually the most prominent melodic voice, and is often double-tracked. This is the part that
guitarist/vocalist Nick DiSalvo (henceforth "NDS") generally plays live... with noted exceptions.
Guitar II, when it diverges from Guitar I, is generally higher in pitch, providing additonal
melodic content to create harmony. Guitar III (rare) adds occasional flourish/embellishment.

With regard to tone, NDS mentioned in an interview that Lore was recorded with an early-70s
Marshall JMP.

"The heavy guitars in that album were all done with the JMP mentioned above! The base crunch sound
is just the amp and the more saturated fuzz sounds came from stacking pedals on top of it. I use a
Black Arts Toneworks Pharaoh for my rhythm fuzz sound and am always switching out other pedals for
lead sounds."

Source: https://gearandloathinginsandiego.com/tag/nick-disalvo/

He has since contradicted this, however, implying that the album was recorded with his 100w Sound
City head that was modded to DR103 spec. He said this *after* becoming a Hiwatt endorsee, however,
so I'm inclined to believe that it actually was the Marshall. The earlier Elder albums sound more
Hiwatt-ish, but not Lore (and not Reflections either).

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0ZIlfBPtZKg

Also likely used on this album are the following effects...

Black Arts Toneworks Phararoh
Dunlop MC404 CAE Wah
Earthquaker Devices Dispatch Master
Earthquaker Devices Grand Orbiter (or some kind of phaser, but as of 2019 he uses this one)

The only guitar, to my knowledge, is NDS's Gibson '61 SG Standard Reissue, with the stock '57
Classic pickups.

As always, I welcome any corrections and/or feedback.

Enjoy!
